    Hi everyone, we are live So guys, before we get started Before we get started, I want to tell you Before we start First of all, everyone join the Telegram channel And enroll my Vectors GLD Abhiyas Classes This is going to happen tomorrow in the morning So guys, please watch it once It is going to happen tomorrow in the morning This is the GLD Abhiyas Classes You can enroll for this already This Vectors 4 is your final GLD Abhiyas And you can see when it is happening Ma'am, this is done This link is done You have to share GLD 5 Right? We will change this link We will change this link So we will change this link This is a different link This is a different link This is a different link I will change this link So please attend it So let us get started Today is a new chapter Let's start the chapter Let's start the chapter Subscribe to Unacademy JEE YouTube channel Because this is the notification This is the notification of your success JEE 2024 aspirants If they follow from the starting You are at the right place The way we are going to study The way we are going to study You might get it somewhere Absolutely free of cost If you agree, please hit the like button Hit the like button Why is it not working? Let us get started for all the students Who are new here My name is Namukol I am the director of JEE and NEET at Unacademy I have also been awarded for best teaching and pedagogy At the National Teacher's Conclave Very good Why is the technology not working? Okay It is working I have also taught millions of students I want to tell you one thing More than 20 lakh subscribers More than 28 lakh daily hits Our notes, lectures Across platforms 1 million plus students Certified by the Indian Association of Physics Teachers I am also the author of Top Ranker series But this is all nonsense The reason I am here is because I love physics If you don't love physics, it is the teacher's fault If you don't love chemistry It is the teacher and student's fault It is an equal effort game Mathematics is the topper stool I am very proud to tell you that this is the number one team of the country Because more than 28 lakh students follow them We call it Team Udaan Team Udaan Udaan is your code If you subscribe to Unacademy Udaan code gives you Premium access to Team Udaan Yalgaar Yodha Batches are also unlocked Maximum possible benefit Note it down Because of the results If you see last year 3 times 100 percentile 99 percentile 99 percentile plus The best result Unacademy showed 1000 1255 I don't know the exact number I think it's the same So many students Top 1% 5th student from Unacademy Top 1% It's a big thing It was 1255 Who got 99% It's a big thing Let's get started 3 toppers from Unacademy Think about it 48 students 100 percentile Next level I will put the link In the description And in the live chat Ensure to attend This is happening tomorrow At 7 pm Tomorrow 7 pm Ensure to attend Let's get started Are you guys excited? Let's start Are you guys excited? Shall we begin? Let's start Motion and it's parameter If anything moves What are the important things To keep an eye on What are the important things Motion means a movement Motion means a movement Is motion relative? I will tell you This is you This is you and this is me You are the wood and I am standing here I will say wood you are on rest I am also on rest Alien will say earth is moving You are revolving and rotating The sun you are about is also rotating The galaxy you are in is also rotating A lot of things are happening A lot of movement is happening for an alien Alien will say you both are moving Motion is always relative Whenever motion happens Whenever something moves What can you measure You can measure its distance You can measure its displacement Displacement is a vector Displacement is a vector If this vehicle Reaches from here to here If this vehicle reaches from here to here Then you will say This is its displacement Then you will say This length I will call this length As distance I will call this length as distance You can measure all these things At any point in time You can say This vehicle Its speed was 10 meters per second Its speed was 10 meters per second You can measure speed You can measure velocity You can say 10 meters per second in this direction 37 degrees in the 4th quadrant You can say like this with direction Basically velocity, acceleration At this point in time its speed was increasing You had given acceleration Let's say 2 meters per second square Acceleration was given here Means speed will be 12 in 1 second Is it clear? I hope you are understanding all these things We will see this tangential and radial later Motion Motion is said to An object is said to be in motion if it changes its position If its position is changing With respect to someone Now in respect to earth Its position will move My position is moving in respect to earth My position is not moving in respect to earth Because I am also on rest And I am on earth But earth is moving If someone will say from outside If someone is on moon If someone is on moon He will say yes I am moving If someone is in space He will say yes I am moving So again it depends on who is watching This is also very important I hope your interest is developing Interest is developing We will start from basics Now we will take you to advanced level Today I have a question Which is from erodov If you are doing olympiad level If you think you can come in top 5 If you have started preparation in 9th or 10th Then definitely do it Restrict yourself to JEE This is also restricted Offline We also try in unacademy plus That it should be like this It is very important That you should study JEE and advanced Please understand that Otherwise you will spend 4 hours On something which is not even going to be asked Now let's talk about Distance and Displacement Advanced level is very good If it is of 3 subjects Then you can start International physics, chemistry olympiad International mathematics olympiad Distance is a line If you are leaving a thread Then length of thread is distance Displacement is the shortest distance If you join initial and final point Then you get displacement vector This is just a scalar Displacement is a proper vector You can see Killer visualization You can easily see What is distance and what is displacement You have understood it Distance is always greater than or equal to Displacement It could have been like this From this point to this point This is your initial point and this is your final point Make a flag here It could have been like this It could have been like this In this case, distance will be equal to displacement If you go like this You didn't go like this You went directly In that case, it will be equal Otherwise, distance will always be greater This thread will always be greater than this red line Distance is always There is no need to tell Distance is always greater than or equal to Displacement Let's talk about each one What you see on google maps is called distance Its length is distance Because you are not going with a drone If you go with a drone, it is not 187 km It would be 150 km or 160 km It would be a little less Actual length Distance is the actual length Distance is the actual length of the path Described by the particle It is a scalar quantity and it will always increase If you are walking, how much distance did you cover in your life It cannot be less Displacement can be less You came here Displacement is less You came close Displacement is less Distance will never be zero The height of a person is never less This is a wrong statement We keep on climbing If we sleep at night, we get elongated We keep on climbing because of gravity Did you understand? Understand all of this Our age always increases Time always increases Similarly, distance also increases Distance is always an increasing graph Distance increases when you stop Distance always increases Speedometer Speed plus speedometer You keep on seeing km reading km reading is never less
    and it is a scalar we don't talk about the direction but how long it is dimension of a distance dimension of a distance is M0L1T0 SI unit of distance is meter SI unit of distance is meter is this clear? I hope you are enjoying it like the video and if you have any doubt, ask here simple? meter now displacement we denote it with D we call it S as a vector because it is a displacement vector S may be because it is the shortest distance I still don't understand why S but S is a good word for displacement S is a good word for displacement I don't know if you know why it is S tell me in the chat box I want to know how creative you can be most of the people say S now tell me the minimum distance between the initial and final position of a particle the shortest distance between two points is called displacement so obviously you can see it very clearly this was your initial and this was your final you call this line my displacement vector you call it my displacement vector it is a vector quantity you measure it in meter L becomes its dimension see this mouse is going towards something displacement initially it started from here finally it reached here I call it my displacement vector so what is the difference between distance and displacement you must have done this in your childhood ICSE and CBSE must have done this but now you will understand the difference between distance and displacement total length of the path total length of the path is distance this is the shortest length between the two points this is the scalar quantity you don't have to make a vector you can make a vector force vector displacement vector this is the distance this is the scalar quantity this is the vector quantity you can make it now let's talk about for a closed path you have to understand this for a closed path, distance travelled is zero if I go like this distance will be non-zero distance will be 2pi r but if I in this circle, I will say displacement is zero you worked so hard you worked so hard in your company investors are saying you worked so hard in your company you did this and that but you are still there this is an example because I have to sit and stand with investors so that is why I can tell you I can relate to that part also you will learn this later I hope you are trying to understand what is your displacement you are studying so much there is no displacement in number there is no positive displacement did you understand? for a closed path, displacement is zero now let's see an example let's do kids questions and increase your confidence then we will do high level questions now see what is here a farmer has to go 500m due north and then 400m due east and then 200m due south to reach his field find the distance and the displacement always start from the origin this is north, this is south north, south and this is your east east is the place where west bengal is this is west did you understand? this is Gujarat, Rajasthan this is Kashmir, J&K this is south Kerala Tamil Nadu you can make this north, south, east, west east is plus x direction take y negative y, negative x now let's see what is here a farmer has to go 500m let's make it 500m 500m to scale north then you went east 400m I sent you 400m make it less than this make it more than this make it less than this 400m this is believable we made a good figure then you are told you go 200m south less than half of this you reach here you did this this was your transaction tell me quickly what will be the distance? measure it 500 plus 400 plus 200 how much? 1100m what is the distance? how much will be the displacement? tell me quickly how much will be the displacement? this will be your displacement this will be your displacement how will we calculate this? you must have learnt something by doing math how much is this? this is 200, so this will be 200 how much is this? this is 300 how much is this? 300 300, 300 this is 400, so this is also 400 apply Pythagoras theorem this will be triangle of 345 whole square of 300 plus whole square of 400 this will be your 500 so your displacement is this much, 500 and your distance is 1100 very simple, let's move ahead let's move ahead distance and displacement of a particle when it changes its direction of motion this is a very good example, vertical motion I threw a ball up it came down threw it up, it came down threw it up, it came down this was maximum height what is its distance? h plus h its distance is h plus h, 2h its displacement is 0 displacement and distance are not necessary in 1D motion distance and displacement are not necessary in 1D motion always remember this when I throw initial velocity opposite of gravity or opposite of acceleration if I throw initial velocity here and acceleration here, then this velocity will reduce in opposite direction, it will apply brakes it will come to rest and then change its direction understood? when I threw it up, its velocity reduced at topmost point its velocity is 0, where it is turning its velocity is 0 and then it turned, so point to be noted point to be noted, wherever in 1D motion direction changes wherever in 1D motion direction changes please understand this wherever your direction changes wherever your direction changes there your velocity becomes 0 at the maximum height this is a very interesting philosophy this is something to understand when does this generally happen? when does this generally happen? this generally happens when you throw initial velocity opposite of acceleration then velocity reduces then it comes down again, a very good example in such cases in such cases where it changes the direction this is a very good example if we analyze this if a particle if a particle comes from here to here then you can tell one thing this green line this green line is its distance this green line is its distance and what will be its displacement? this will be its displacement and what will be its displacement? this will be its displacement this will be its displacement very simple very simple, let's move ahead very simple, let's move ahead everyone, everyone, is it clear? if you are able to understand, then like and tell in the chat Shrey Gupta, Yaseer very good very good now in this you get displacement from vector sum you get displacement from vector sum there is no need to understand this this is nonsense this is complete nonsense did you understand what I said? this is complete nonsense we have learnt this from Kota Factory Jeetu Bhaiya had said did you understand what I said? now I hope you have understood this from there that if a particle is going in this direction is going in this direction then what does it mean? that where the direction had changed, the velocity is zero then one more thing you have noticed you have noticed that you have taken one displacement you have taken one displacement and you have taken another displacement you have taken one more displacement which is a vector how will your net displacement be? net displacement how will it be? you add these vectors you add these vectors simply if you add these vectors then you will get net displacement because this is initial and this is final so you will get net displacement if you go here and then come here so you have added these vectors let's say this is 10i cap and this is minus 2j cap so 8i cap is done this is 10i cap and this is minus 2i cap so what is the overall result? if you add these vectors then you will get 8 automatically if you add these two vectors then you will get this let me make it more visual to make it more let me write it in orange color so you can see it better I have added these vectors but if someone asks me
    Sir, you tell us the distance. Sir, you tell us the distance. For distance, I will say its length plus its length. I will say its length plus its length. Did you understand this statement? This vector's length plus this vector's length. If you understood this statement, let's move ahead. Did you understand this statement? Someone is shouting lag lag lag lag lag lag. Tell me quickly, is it lag now? Is it better now? Only one kid is shouting lag, no lag. Ok ok ok, it's clear. Good. Kids have become very innovative these days. Let's move ahead. Is this clear? Summing a vector will give me a net displacement. Let me explain this with a better example. You will understand this with a vector. I took one displacement. We used to do this very well in vectors. We took one displacement. Let's call it S1 vector. Then I took one more displacement. I called it S2 vector. Then I took one more displacement. I called it S3 vector. Then I took one more displacement. I called it S4 vector. And this was my transaction. I did this much transaction. I was here. I finally came here. I was here. Then I came here. You started from here. What did you say? You said that this was my displacement. This was my overall displacement. And this was equal to this plus this plus this plus this. I can write this. You have learned this in vectors. S1 displacement. Vector sum. S2 displacement. You are doing vector sum. Plus S3 plus S4. But if someone asks me what is distance? If someone asks me what is distance? Namostu sir, tell me the distance. Why are you telling all this? I will say its length plus its length plus its length plus its length. Khach khach khach khach. You have to tell its length. So you will say length of S1. Length of S1. Vector sum. Length of S1. Plus length of S2. Okay. Plus length of S3. Plus length of S4. This will not come in your notes. But to make you understand. If you understand, say it properly. Yes sir, I got it. I got it sir. Tell me quickly. Wow!  Is it clear? Is it clear? Is it clear? Hurry. Hurry. Is it clear? Should we move ahead? Let's go. If you are enjoying this then keep liking. Please share. Your one share really matters. I want this to reach the world. Okay? Everyone, please. You will have to support. A lot of people try to suppress us and copy our optimization, everything. But, that is not important. You spread it as much as you can. If you really felt that the way we studied vector we have never studied that way. We really enjoyed it. Our numbers have started coming. Our sheet questions have started coming. So, do share one thing, kids. One thing for us. I will request you in your WhatsApp groups, with your friends. Please share. I will be really ever so grateful to you for the team. Because this team works very hard. And this team has to move ahead. And have to move ahead a lot. And that's it. Education will be free. And that's all we want. Okay? Come on. Free and highest quality education for all. Which we always say. Okay? Come on. Look at it now. Now, part two. Part three. Part four. Part five. Part six. Part seven. Part eight. Part nine. Look at it now. A particle moves from origin. A particle moves from origin to 10,0. Okay? And comes back 2 meters. So, what is the displacement? You went to 10 and then two came back. Eight. Okay? Eight. There are many ways to do this. You started from here. You started from here. Where did you reach? 10,0. Right? This is 0,0. This is 0,0. This is 10,0. Okay? So, basically, you reached here first. After that, you came 2 meters back. After that, you came 2 meters back. Tell me quickly. This is what happened. So, basically, you reached here first. After that, you came 2 meters back. After that, you came 2 meters back. Tell me quickly. This is what happened with you. Ultimately, which coordinate did you reach? Ultimately, you reached 8,0. I mean, you came 2 meters back. So, you reached 8,0. So, now you can do this by drawing. You can do this by drawing. This is yours. Right? This was your final. This was your initial. So, you will say that this is my displacement. So, how can I write this displacement vector? I can write it by looking at it. This will be 8. 8 meters. Eye cap. I can write it by looking at it. But, I don't feel like writing it by looking at it. I can write it by looking at it. I can write it by looking at it. So, this will be 8. 8 meters. Eye cap. I can write it by looking at it. But, I don't feel like writing it by looking at it. Right? I don't feel like writing it by looking at it. So, call this as S1 vector. And, call this as S2 vector. Right? Now, you can say that I have taken one displacement vector S1. Right? I have taken S1. This can confuse you a little bit. Right? Right? So, let's make a small point here. This is a point. Right? But, this is your entire vector. S1 vector. Right? S1 vector is what? 10 meters. 10 meters. Right? This is your entire vector. Right? S1 vector. Right? S1 vector is what? 10 meters. Eye cap. After that, the second displacement you took was minus 2 eye cap. Right? Minus 2 meters. Eye cap. You can leave meter and meter. Right? Now, you have grown up. So, set meter aside. Right? Right? You know that we are talking about meter. Right? This is this. This is this. Right? Clear? So, you have written it like this. Now, what is it? Now, from here. One more. One more way was this. Visual. Now, what can you do? What is your net displacement? So, what will you do? S1 plus S2. If you add these two, then that will also be 8 eye cap. Set meter aside. Right? You have grown up. Right? Clear? Is this clear, kids? Great fun. Right? You should get some hearts. Tell me quickly. Sanjeev Kumar. Khushi. Naveen Singh. Rhea Singhania. Is this clear? Is it fun? Legend. Let's talk about speed and velocity. Let's talk about speed and velocity. What is speed? Speed is what? What is speed? Denoted by V. Velocity is denoted by V. And ahead is this. Vector, right? Vector, right? So, speed is also denoted by. What is speed? Speed is also magnitude of velocity. I mean, don't tell me this. I don't care about direction. Speedometer has only numbers. Your speed is coming at 120 km. It shouldn't be too much. Okay? 120 is your speed. 121 is your speed. It's just a number. It doesn't say direction. In this direction. You know where you are going. Sometimes here. Sometimes there. It's just a number. It doesn't say direction. In this direction. You know where you are going. Sometimes here. Sometimes there. But you know your speed. Speedometer just gives numbers. Okay? Did you understand what I said? At home. The one who knows. You have a very powerful car. He calls you and asks. Are you driving a car? At what speed are you driving? Okay? He doesn't want to know. Where are you going? Until and unless. You have done something bad. In life. Right? It's possible that. You are going to meet gangsters. Here and there. Your company is not right. So, he will also ask. Where are you going? Why are you going? Okay? He is doubting. Right? Understood? Speed. What is your speed? Okay? What is speed? What is the magnitude of velocity? And in this. You will have to tell directly. 100 km. In which direction? In the north. Come on. Tell. Okay? Velocity. So, this is the difference between speed and velocity. Let's take the example of two cars. Let's take the example of two cars. I call this car 1. I call this car 2. And this is my x direction. Or I also call it positive direction. Some people call it positive. Let's take x. No nonsense. We know vectors. So, we will say. Write velocity of 1. Write velocity of 1. What will be the velocity vector? Minus 100 i cap. This is in meter per second. Right? Write V2. Write V2 vector. Is this vector equal? Their velocity is not same. This is going here. This is going here. Right? What will happen? Plus 100 i cap. Meter per second. But what? Their speed is same. 100. 100. Speed is same. Yes. Speed is same. So, you will say here. V1 is equal to 100. 100. 100. 100. 100. 100. V2 is equal to 100. 100. 100. 100. 100. 100. 100. 100. 100. Without the vector sign, this is nothing. This is same. This is same. Without the vector sign, this is same. This is speed. This is speed. Their speed is same. Their vector is different. This is… V1 vector is the opposite of V2 vector. V1 vector is not equal to V2 vector. You understood this point here. This statement. If I will write, these two vectors are not equal. These two vectors are some important things which we have learnt in vector. Apart from that, you will say, but V1 is equal to V2. Are you able to comprehend? Are you able to comprehend? The length of this vector and the length of this vector are equal. Right? And if someone is smart, he can write, V1 plus V2 is 0. Or V1 is negative of V2. Both are opposite to each other. The work is over. Let's move ahead. Okay? So, V1 plus V2 is 0. V1 plus V2 is 0. V1 plus V2 is 0. V1 plus V2 is 0. V1 plus V2 is 0. V1 plus V2 is 0. V1 plus V2 is 0. Right? Are you able to comprehend? Are you able to comprehend? The length of this vector and the length of this vector are equal. Are you able to comprehend? The length of this vector and the length of this vector are equal. Right? So, this V2 plus V2 is 0. Right? And if someone is smart, he can write, V1 plus V2 is 0. Or V1 is negative of V2. Both are opposite to each other. The work is over. Let's move ahead. Right? Okay. Good, good, good. Amazing. Okay. Next part. Examples of speed and velocity. Examples of speed and velocity. Are you guys ready for this? Are you guys ready for this? Are you guys ready for this? Because velocity is not constant. Because velocity is not constant. Oh! Where do this goes!! This is the velocity vector, friends. The velocity vector is changing. Here are are all factors of velocity, right here both factors are changing. If velocity and vector are changing, If velocity vector is changing, Here from here till here, acceleration was 0, Acceleration and velocity are constant.
    But as soon as it comes here, the velocity vector changes. Because what is acceleration? Acceleration is the rate of change of velocity vector. If this is constant, then differentiation of constant is zero. There is some acceleration here. Now you will say, no sir, what happens with acceleration? Listen to me, many students will tell me that with acceleration, either the velocity will increase or decrease. Say speed. By pressing the accelerator, the speed decreases or increases. If you press the accelerator, the accelerator and the brake are both accelerators for you. This is an accelerator and this is a decelerator. The brake is a decelerator for you and this is an accelerator. Did you understand what I said? This is giving positive acceleration and the brake is giving negative acceleration. Acceleration reduces your speed. But that is tangential acceleration. This acceleration is normal acceleration or radial acceleration. Now see, there are two types of acceleration. One acceleration increases the speed of the vehicle. And the other acceleration changes the direction of the velocity vector. Do you agree? Is it clear? Did you understand? So basically, the direction of the velocity is changing. The velocity vector is changing. So basically, the acceleration at play here is the other one. It is the acceleration that changes the direction of the velocity. Is it clear? Tell me. You have studied F is equal to ma in your childhood, right? If the mass is constant. Have you studied F is equal to ma? Have you studied F is equal to ma? Have you studied F is equal to ma? Have you studied F is equal to ma? Now tell me, is this force applied on it? It is doing circular motion with constant speed. Is it doing? Tell me. Easy. Light mind. Light mind. Tell me. What is the acceleration here? With light mind. Right? Wait a minute. Tell me. You might be able to see it better. The speed of this ball is the same. I am not speeding up. The speed is the same. Its speed is 10 meters per second. Let's say. Let's say its speed is 10 meters per second. Is its speed changing? No, its speed is not changing. But I can feel a tension in my hand. I can feel a tension on my fingers. I can feel a tension. And this thread is also properly tensed. This thread is also properly tensed. There is tension in this thread. There is tension in this thread. So, the thread in which there is tension, means this thread is always applying force on it. A dog. You have caught a dog. There is a leash. It is running. It is running in a circle. You know that you are applying force. That dog also knows that the band on its neck is applying force on it. It is changing the direction of its velocity. It is not changing the magnitude of its velocity. It is not changing its speed. It is not changing its speed. But it is changing its direction. It is giving it a direction. So, to give direction, we need acceleration or force. Force is acceleration. The equation of F is equal to ma. If the mass is constant. Do you understand this? Do you understand what I have said? Do you understand the word I have made a mocktail of? You are small. That's why I have not said cocktail. I have said mocktail. Do you understand what I have said? Mocktails are not injurious to health. They are also injurious. A little bit. But yes, cocktails are definitely. Let's move ahead. Because there is alcohol in them. Is it clear? Let's move ahead. Did you understand this? Let's move ahead. Now, let's talk about average speed. We should not have digressed unnecessarily. Right? We will come back to it. The ratio of distance covered by the particle. Right? The ratio of the distance covered by the particle and time. You get the average speed from distance upon time. Always keep this in mind. If I talk about average speed. Right? This is always equal to. Total distance. Upon total time. Total distance upon total. Time. Or I will say it like this. Distance upon time. Right? Or I will say it like this. And sometimes people denote it like this. Average of speed. Let's put a bracket like this. This is also called average of speed. But we will normally write average speed. It's okay. We don't want to denote much. It's a simple thing. Meter per second. Centimeter per second. In CGS, dimension is L by T. Okay? It's very simple. Is it clear? If you are going from place A to B. If you are going from place A to B. Now, I will explain its meaning to you. Right? If you are going from place A to B. Look carefully. Look at this yellow line. If you are going from here to here. And you said that I have covered the distance here. Look carefully. I have covered the distance. 300 km. Okay? And you took the time. 2 hours. So, I said, Sometimes you were driving at 100. Sometimes you were driving at 200. 100, 200, 100, 200, 100, 200. Sometimes 100, sometimes 200. Sometimes you even stopped. Right? Sometimes 50. Sometimes 200 again. You changed a lot of speed. At every moment. Tell me the average. What was your average? You will say, let's see. I have covered 300 km in 2 hours. What is the average speed in 2 hours? Do you understand? What does it mean? On an average, you drove so fast. On an average, Sometimes it will be more than this. Sometimes it will be less than this. Okay? So, this is what it means. So, the average speed. Here. In this case, What will be the average speed? Tell me quickly. 300 km upon 2 hours. Okay? So, it will be 150 kmph. Kilometer per hour. Okay? Kilometer by hour. Okay? So, did you understand that On an average, If you drove at 150 kmph, Still, you would have taken that much time. Still, you would have taken that much time. Okay? Did you understand the meaning of average? Did everyone understand? Has everyone understood? Okay? Instantaneous speed. What was your speed at that instant When your mom called you and asked Tell me what is the speed now? At that instant. Tell me right now. How fast are you driving? It seems very fast. The engine sound is coming. Tell me. So, you will say, Mom, I am driving at 25 kmph. Right? But mom will think That you are talking about 25 kmph. It is possible that you are at 25 25 meters per second. Is it clear? Did you understand? Is this clear, everyone? Right? So, instantaneous speed is Instantaneous speed is When you see Constantly changing At a particular instant of time. Not at an interval But at an instant of time. Okay? So, what will be that instantaneous speed? If I say at an instant I want to drive at this instant. Look quickly. I want to drive at this instant. At this instant, You have a small distance. DT time is a very small instant. Here, you have Dx distance. So, I can say this In a very plain way. At this instant. This small time interval Is equal to an instant. Okay? So, I will say Dx distance is covered in Dt. So, basically, Instantaneous velocity Becomes the Formula of differentiation. Dx by Dt. Is it clear? Tell me. Tell me. Let's move ahead. This is nonsense. Average velocity. This is an interesting thing. This is an interesting thing. What was average speed? Distance upon time. Total distance upon total time. Speed, distance. Velocity, displacement. Everyone knows this. You are intelligent. What is average velocity? Average velocity is a vector. Always remember One formula of this. Average velocity is Total displacement upon total time. Always remember this. Okay? I will write it like this. Average velocity. Now, I am not writing a vector. So, it means I will write it in English. Right? In this, I will write Total displacement upon total time. Is this clear everyone? One minute. I am live. Right? Okay. Sure. Sure. Sure. Okay. Come on kids. Is this clear? Total displacement upon total time. Is this clear? Okay. Total displacement upon total time. Okay. Is everything clear so far? Any doubts? Okay. Total displacement upon total time. Right? Now, like this mouse. Listen to me carefully. This mouse of yours. Right? This mouse. It went from here to here. It went from here to here. This is its displacement. And whatever time it took. So, basically it means It went like this. But displacement. Displacement. Let's say if its displacement is here. Like, Let's take its case. It was 300 meters. Now, its displacement is 200 meters. 200 kilometers. Let's assume it is 200 kilometers. And it took the same time. 2 hours. It took 2 hours. So, tell me here. If this displacement is 200 kilometers. And it took time from here to here. 2 hours. Let's say it took time from here to here. T is equal to 0. T is equal to 2 hours. Okay? T is equal to 2 hours. So, what will be its average velocity? In this case. You will say, Average velocity is equal to 200 by 2. That is, 100 kilometers per hour. Now, what does it mean? First, understand its meaning. It means, Do you remember, What did I mean by average speed? I said, If you travel at a speed of 150, On an average, It will take the same time. What does it mean? If you, With a drone, Right? With a drone, If you travel at 150 kilometers per hour, Then, In this, And in this, It will take the same time. You will reach in the same time. What does average velocity mean? It means, If you, In displacement, With what speed, With what velocity, I drive you, In displacement, With what velocity, I drive you, It will take the same time. I hope, You have understood this. It means, Now, This is a vector. If your mouse goes from here to here, Then, This will be your displacement vector. This will be your displacement vector. And, Obviously, The average, Velocity vector, Will also be in this direction. Because, You can see, See this, This is the average velocity vector. And, This is the displacement vector. Right? You can see this. This is the average velocity vector. And, This is the displacement vector. I know, You can't see this. But, It's okay. Okay? So, Basically, They will always be parallel. You can see, According to this formula, The average, Velocity vector, Will always be parallel. Okay? So,
    the average velocity and direction will be same this will always be parallel to this both these vectors both these vectors will be parallel their magnitude will be same, this is in ms and this is in m but here this second matches so this whole vector matches did everyone understand this? if someone is going like this and stops here, it means he did net displacement this is his net displacement vector assume that he took some time let's say he took time from t equals to 0 to 2 seconds reached here in 2 seconds reached here in 2 seconds so basically displacement by time so his average velocity vector will also be like this both these will be like this because this displacement vector was upon time only did you understand this? t is equal to 0 to 2 so this was the displacement and direction of average velocity was also same clear? ok now let's take an example this is a very interesting visualization now I have to tell that this is a dog and this is a man let's write this as dog d and let's write this as man m d and m, tell me one thing in this whole transaction, this goes like this and this comes like this displacement of both is same so can I say that average velocity, listen to me carefully average velocity vector of dog is equal to is this statement correct? is this statement correct? this is just for fun are these two things same? are these two things same? is equal to the average velocity of man, it's obvious because if he has travelled x distance he has done x displacement, so he has also done x so his displacement is also x his displacement is also x but if I talk about distance he has covered this distance, he has covered 3x if I talk about distance, he has covered 3x he has covered distance x did you understand what I said? this is his distance this is his distance so basically average velocity is same, because in average velocity displacement of both is same so I understood this, because displacement of both is same I have written this correctly because we know that displacement of dog upon same time is equal to displacement of man upon time, because this is equal so you can write this if you understood this, then give me a big thumbs up now I am going to write a new statement I am going to write a new statement now this dog of yours this dog of yours is travelling 3x what will be its average speed? can I write this as 3 upon 1? can I write this as 3 upon 1? tell me quickly, why did it come? it travelled 3x distance at same time but it only did x at same time if you are able to understand both then your level of thinking has reached amazing level your level of thinking has reached amazing level if you have understood this much of visualization that means you are ready for the world if you understood this, then you are ready for the world we did this just for fun so that your brain develops and now you have learnt one more thing wherever there is a turn in one dimensional motion kinematics is in 1D wherever there is a change in direction, velocity is 0 wherever there is a change in direction in 1D motion wherever there is a change in direction wherever there is a change in direction velocity is 0 there is no need to analyze this much ball came back velocity is 0 did you understand? where velocity is 0, direction has changed if direction changes, why are you afraid of direction change? why are you afraid of direction change? because wherever direction changes displacement and distance are not same if you say it was 10m and it was 2m 10 plus 2, displacement is how much? 8 distance and displacement are different but when will this happen? this will happen when initial velocity is here and acceleration is opposite but if I throw a ball like this gravity is same but acceleration due to free guy is 10 9.8m per second square and initial velocity is also like this then it will go down it is always same you are doing very well it was amazing we will not discuss much about it we will discuss graphs as we go forward we will do this in later classes we will do this in later classes we will do this in later classes we will do this in later classes a particle goes from point A to B we have done this in basic kinematics in a semicircle of radius 1 meter in 1 second means from t equals to 0 it reaches here in semicircle from t equals to 0 to t equals to 1 it reaches here it reaches here in 1 second you have to find average speed you have to find magnitude of average velocity let's do first one let's do average speed average speed is what? total distance upon total time total distance upon total time what will be the distance? tell me 2 pi r upon time is 1 so radius is 1 radius is 1 2 pi is the answer 2 pi meters per second B, 2 pi meters per second first answer is 2 pi meters per second you travelled 2 pi distance in 1 second average speed is here magnitude of average velocity second part average velocity because you have to find magnitude displacement upon time displacement is 2 distance is 2 pi distance is 2 r distance is 2 upon 1 distance is 2 meters per second one minute oh man sorry my bad we have done a big injustice this is pi r, not 2 pi r we were in flow I have done this mistake in 12 years in 12 years this is pi r pi into 1 distance is pi distance is pi pi meters per second all these options are over 2 meters per second next question one more thing which I didn't tell in 12 years if you have to tell average velocity vector it is 2 meters per second minus because your displacement is this this is your displacement vector so what is average velocity vector displacement upon time is a number so these two vectors are parallel it is a vector average velocity is a vector it is clear is this clear what is exit bad boy is this clear come to next can dv by dt be 0 while this is non-zero what does it mean can this be 0 while this is non-zero I will tell you the answer decode it what does it mean
    First of all, look at this, d by dt, rate of change of, what is d by dt? Rate of change of, I told you differentiation, this is rate of change of and what is this? Speed, magnitude of velocity, what is this? This is speed, what is speed? Speed is magnitude of velocity or velocity vector with this, okay? This is speed, so this means, what does this mean? What does this mean? The rate of change of speed is 0, means speed is not changing, right? What does this mean? So basically this means, what does this mean? Speed is constant, differentiation of constant is 0, right? It is not changing. So can speed be constant? This means you have decoded, speed be constant. Now let's decode this. While, now what is dv by dt? The rate of change of velocity, you call this acceleration, you call it acceleration vector. By definition, acceleration vector is the rate of change of velocity vector, right? A is dv by dt. Okay, now you said, this is nothing but acceleration's mod is non-zero, which is again meaning acceleration's magnitude is 0. So now what can this be? Now the question remains, can speed be constant while, now this is the question, can speed be constant while acceleration is 0? See how I have decoded this. I have written this in English, can speed be constant while acceleration is 0? Of course, it is possible, right? Take the example of circle, circular motion, right? See quickly. Everyone, take the example of circular motion, it is best. Take the example of circular motion, here your speed is 2 meters per second, okay? Here it is 2 meters per second, it is changing, velocity vector is changing, speed is not changing. Speed is 2 only, speed is 2 only, okay? Tell me quickly, how much is its velocity vector changing? See, 2 i cap, minus 2 j cap, minus 2 i cap, 2 j cap, velocity vector is changing, see direction is changing. Do you understand this? Velocity vector is changing, direction is changing, vector is changing, velocity vector is changing, speed is constant. What is here? Speed is constant, acceleration, right? Velocity is changing, it is not constant, velocity is changing. So it means, the rate of change of velocity is non-zero, because velocity is changing. It means, acceleration is non-zero, okay? It means, your acceleration is non-zero. Acceleration vector is non-zero, or a is non-zero. It is possible, by looking at this example, keeping this example in mind. But did you need this example? Wasn't this example enough? This example is explained in all books by circular motion only, I don't like this example. I like this example more. Take an irregular road, take an irregular road, quickly, take an irregular road. And in this, you see, a car is always running at 10 meters per second. Okay? Now it has come here, it is also running at 10 meters per second, its speed is constant. Speed is 10 meters per second, which is also a constant, it is a constant, it is not changing. But velocity vector is changing, because direction is changing, vector has changed. At every moment, its velocity vector is changing. It means, velocity vector is not constant. It means, the rate of change of velocity vector, when would this be zero? If this was constant, if velocity vector was constant, then this would be zero. It means, this is non-zero, it is a change, it is a variable. It means, acceleration is non-zero. It is happening, right? One example is enough to explain this. Next question. Now let's do some questions to make you more solid. Rock solid with this, okay? Now see, in such questions, there are many content, many books, which make you remember 10 things. I say, never remember. Always, whenever there is a question of average speed, instantaneous speed, do it with basics. Do it with basics, your time will be saved. If you agree, then tell me. Always do it like this. Now by doing this question, I will prove to you that you should not learn formulas, remember formulas. Some people remember, that there is this formula in this, if the distance is same. Some strange things, I don't even know. They make us do like this, okay? No, no, no, don't do all this. This is not the answer, okay? But what do you have to do? Whenever you get a question like this, you have to draw it. Visualize it. Killer visualizers will draw it. Right? You are killer visualizers. Give a thumbs up if you consider yourself killer visualizers. Are you the solid people? A car covers 30 kilometers and then 40 kilometers. First, a car travels 30 kilometers. I will write this as 30 kilometers. And then it travels 40 kilometers. Then 30 and 40, I have written here. 30 kilometers and 40 kilometers, I have written. First, draw it. Visualize it a little. Make it and see. Otherwise, you don't deserve it. If you are not making it, then you don't deserve it. I am telling the truth. You will not be able to do anything in life by becoming a parrot. Draw 30-40. A car covers in 2 hours. How much time are you covering here? Time T1 is equal to 2 hours. Say that you have taken 2 hours here. You have taken 2 hours here. Right? After that, you are being told that your speed here is 20 kmph. 20 kilometers per hour. This is your speed here. So you wrote it in a circle. Right? Come on. You wrote T1 below. Right? You wrote T1 below. We will write velocity above. Distance, velocity in a circle and time here. Understood? Now you have to calculate average speed. In this whole transaction, you have to calculate average speed. Let's do it. What is average speed? Total distance upon total time. Total distance upon total time. Okay? What will be the total time? T1 plus T2. Do you know T1 here? Do you not know T2 here? Right? You can calculate velocity here. 2 hours is equal to 15 kmph. No need to calculate it. And what is the total distance? You know that. 30 plus 40 kilometers per hour. You will get the answer in hour. Okay? Now tell me quickly. Speed, distance, time. Speed, distance, time. Speed, distance, time. Tell me one thing. Here you have to write 2. You know that you have to write 2 here. Here you have to write 70. Total 70 kilometers you have to cover. Total 70 kilometers you have to cover. What is T1? Time covered here is 2. How will you calculate it? You have distance and velocity. You have distance and speed. What will you do? This was 2 hours. You have written 2 hours here. This is 70 by 4. This is 35 by 2. This is 17.5 kmph. Now I don't know why some kids take this wrong formula. They take wrong formula. If there are same time intervals and different distances, then use this formula. If there are same velocities and different times, then use this formula. Are you mad? This is an advanced problem. This is an advanced problem. It is a simple problem of erodov. Don't glorify it. It is a problem from erodov. I will call it advanced. You will not feel that it is an advanced problem. You will not feel that it is an advanced problem. We will do this with killer visualization. You will understand. It is the easiest possible way to solve this problem. First, you don't understand what the problem is. It confuses you. Particle travels half the distance with velocity v0. The remaining half was travelled with v1 for half the time and v2 for other half of the time. Find the average velocity of the particle for complete motion. There is always a doubt on this. There is always a question in the class or its changed version where the velocity is changed. I am going to give you its best solution. If you are witnessing it, you will be really happy. Any kid can do this. How will I solve this? I will only solve it using DST. There is no extra knowledge. There should be only one knowledge. Average speed is total distance upon total time. Average velocity is total displacement upon total time. Is it clear? Find the average velocity or average distance. There is no question of direction change. There is only one direction. Let's move ahead. Distance and displacement will be same. A particle travels half the distance. First, find the distance. I have found the distance. Its half will be somewhere here. Its half will be somewhere here. Its half will be somewhere here. I have broken it in half. I think this is half. Let's break it here. Is it clear? We have drawn this line at half the distance. There is no problem. I will call this distance as d by 2. From here to here. I will call this distance as d by 2. From here to here.
    from here to here it is d by 2, from here to here it is d by 2. Make a good figure, you will like it a lot. So what you have to find out is average velocity or average speed, it doesn't matter. Okay? So let's go. Find out average velocity or in this case average because it is the same distance, it won't make a difference, they both will be the same in this case. So that is nothing but total distance, right? That is nothing but total displacement by total time. Total displacement upon total time. This will be the formula. In total distance, you can see that d will come. In total time, you say t1 plus t2. The time that is taking here, you say t1 and the time that is taking here, you say t2. Here t1 time is taking and here t2 time is taking. T1 time and here t2 time. Is velocity given here? Yes sir, velocity is given here, v0. This is velocity. So you can find out time from distance upon velocity, right? Yes sir, find it out right now. I have understood, I will find out time from distance upon speed. My time is here, this will be d by 2 upon v0, so this will be d by 2 v0. See, I did a very good thing, I found out time from here, very happy. Because I have these two, so I can find out the third one. I know distance, here d by 2, I know velocity, so I found out time from this upon this. Now draw the second part, which actually makes this problem a little advanced, but actually we will destroy this question. Really, this question will be of no use, right? This question will be of no use, so listen carefully. Now this is your answer, let's keep it aside. Here your answer will come out finally. You know that you have found out this, now you are eagerly waiting to find out t2. Now what is written in this? In the next half journey, he has said that half the time this v1 was running with velocity and other half of the time this was running with v2. How much time is taking here? t2. Write this t2 as t2 by 2, t2 by 2. Assume that this velocity was a little more, this velocity was a little less, or this velocity was less, first less, then more, means you covered the distance quickly. Understood? So assume that v1 was a little more, v1 was a little less and v2 was a little more. Let's say, it doesn't matter, I am just making a figure to just show. So half the time you were running with v1 here and half the time you were running with v2 here. Let's keep this same with color coding. First you were running with v1, then you started running with v2. Clear? You were running with v1, then you started running with v2. v1, then v2. Clear? v2. Clear? And like I said, from here to here, for how much time you were running, write this also. For v1, you were running for t2 by 2 time. You were running for t2 by 2 time. So from here, actually if you get this t2, then your answer will be clear. You have to find out this and this, what is t2 majorly you have to find out. Now it's simple, this into this, velocity into time plus this velocity into this time is v by 2. That's all you have to do. And that's it. It became visual, that's why I understood. Velocity into time. So what did you do? Velocity v1 into t2 by 2, this into this, plus v2 into t2 by 2 is equal to d by 2. Wow! So by looking at this whole thing, you wrote this and you got t2. From here t2 will come. Finished. The problem is over. Finished, finished, finished. So tell me quickly what is t2? Your t2 is d by v1 plus v2. Very nice. Your problem is solved. Was this looking like an advanced problem of any level? Attack this here, attack this here, d will get cancelled. See, d will get cancelled. See, we only gave d. So what will happen is d by 2v0 plus d by v1 plus v2. Kids, d got cancelled. The d we introduced will become 1. It will get cancelled like this. So your answer will come from here. I don't want to remove this. But your given variables, average speed or average velocity will come from here. In your given variables, your answer should come like this. See, we wrote the same thing there. We didn't write the same thing. Yes, d by 2v0. Exactly the same thing came. So you will get the answer from this. Take an LCM and do it up and down. Let's move ahead. Guys, I hope you are a fan of this technique. If you become a fan of this technique, then definitely you will have a lot of relief in life. If you don't mess things up, you will take the least luggage philosophy. Let's come to what is acceleration. Now we will study acceleration in basic terms. I have already studied it. But let me tell you again what is acceleration. Acceleration, like if I ever said that the acceleration of a car. Listen to me carefully. Understand acceleration like this. Rate of change of speed. Let's say its velocity here is 2 meters per second. I make it a point that I mark acceleration with a double arrow. I say that my acceleration is 3 meters per second every second. In the same direction. This means that my speed will increase by 3 every second. If this is T is equal to 0, then T is equal to 1 will be something like this. My car's speed is 3 meters per second square. Meters per second per second. In the same direction, if 3 increases here, then it will become 5. In the next second, increase its speed by 3 more. It will become 8. Are you able to feel it? This is acceleration. This is constant acceleration. Sometimes it may happen that you have not kept the accelerator on a constant. You are increasing the value of acceleration too. Sometimes you can do this. Acceleration is T square. Acceleration is also increasing with time. Okay? Yes, ma'am. It is going to happen. So let's talk about average acceleration. Let's talk about average acceleration that how much velocity has increased in how much time. How much velocity increases in one second, that is acceleration. How many meters per second every second. The velocity change per second is acceleration. Negative acceleration means, Minus 2 meters per second every second means, Velocity is decreasing by 2 every second. Okay? Now let's talk about average acceleration. You will easily understand average acceleration from an example. But always remember it like this. Always remember this average acceleration like this. This is nothing but, Delta V comes in average. Delta V by Delta T. Delta V vector by Delta T. Remember this formula. And what is instantaneous acceleration? Instantaneous acceleration is, Instantaneous acceleration is the definition of your acceleration. dV by dt. Always remember this. If delta comes instead of d, it becomes average. But let's understand this. Let's understand this intelligently with this example. We don't have to become a parrot. It is defined as the ratio of change in velocity, By the time interval. We don't have to learn it like this. Learn it like this. Learn it like this. You say, Namo Sir. Namo Sir, let me do one thing. I am starting from place 1. Do you know my velocity is 1 meter here? How much is my velocity here? Look quickly. Kids, tell me quickly. I started from here. This is my initial. And my final is here. Let's take this one. This is my final. 8 meters per second. This is my final. Okay? My car has reached here. Everyone, look quickly. My car is here. Its speed is 1 meter per second. And here I can see that its speed is 8 meters per second. Okay? 8 meters per second. This is initial. This is final. Kids, let me do one thing. Let me say this. My t is equal to 0. And let me say this. My t is equal to, let's say, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 seconds. No, let's not take 7 seconds. Let's take 7 seconds. Yes, let's take 7 seconds. Not 7. Let's not take 7 seconds. Let's take it in such a way that it comes in 3 seconds. Not 3 seconds. Let's do one thing. We have taken 1. Let's take 3 seconds. Not 3 seconds. Let's take 7 seconds. 7. 7 is better. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Sorry to change it so many times. Because I wanted to get a good answer. So that you can understand in numbers. We are taking it simple. I have taken it simple. From t is equal to 0 to t is equal to 7. So in 7 seconds, your speed, we will talk in English. In 7 seconds, how much did your speed increase? It increased from 1 to 8. It increased from 1 to 8. From 1 i cap, it became 8 i cap. Means, in total, 7 increased. 7 increased in 7 seconds. Means, 7 meters per second squared, your average, on an average, acceleration was there. Now, that is different. That you drove a Ferrari. 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1. And in the last second, 8. It is possible. But in that also, the acceleration is the same. On an average, you went from 1 to 8. I don't care how much disco you did here. I don't care at all. That what disco you did in the middle. All I know is, it increased from 1 to 8 in 7 seconds. So your average acceleration, you are writing with common sense. Right? Feel it. Today, what did you do for the first time? Kids do it. I am telling the truth. Kids do it. I also did the same. But I want you to be a little different. When I was a kid, it increased from 1 meter per second to 8 in 7 seconds. So you said, Yes, Namostu. We will do it well. We will say, what will this be? Vf minus Vi. Delta is also there. We will do this. Upon, tf minus ti, or total time, whatever it takes. So I know this is 7. And I can see, this will be 8 minus 1. 8 i cap, minus 1 i cap. So its direction also came to you. Direction also came. Plus 1 i cap. Meters per second square.
    Did you have fun? If you just had to find the average acceleration, then you could have written delta v Delta v is plus 8 plus 1. Direction is important. If minus 1 was here, then your velocity would have increased from 1 to 8 So it increased from 9. Here it was 1 and then it became 8. So in total, it increased from 9 That's why vector is important So you can see that it increased from 7. Delta v increased from 7 and it took 7 seconds. So it could have done like this Is it clear? Tell me kids Did you understand? V2 minus V1. Delta v vector. So this is also a vector So the direction of Vf minus Vi will be the direction of average acceleration Instantaneous acceleration How to understand instantaneous acceleration? I told you not to take such a long interval. It is not instant. Do you have an accelerometer? It is not available in many cars But if a car tells you what is instantaneous acceleration at this time, then you can see and tell But understand it like this. It was a very short time Here your speed was V and because of that acceleration, your speed increased a little from V plus dV And in dt time, the time from here to here was dt time. It went a little ahead So your speed increased from dV to V plus dV So basically your average acceleration at this instant increased from dV Apply delta V by delta t here. Delta t is very small. It will become dV by dt So this is the definition that we teach in basic maths Always remember two things in this. Acceleration is dV by dt and V dV by dS I have already taught you this. Acceleration is dV by dt. I will again write it Acceleration. I had taught this in basic maths Acceleration is defined as instantaneous acceleration dV by dt And it is also defined as V dV by dx Some people write X as S. V dV by dS Same thing. This and this both should come This and this both should come V dV by dS Now tell me how this comes from this? This is a very bad derivation How does V dV by dS come? I will derive it and tell you If I write it like this. Let's say velocity is a function of There is no t in this. There is some x square in this. Velocity is x square Example. There is some x square in this. So you know The acceleration that you have done is dV by dt Now you know that there is no t in this. If V is equal to t square It would have been very simple. You would have been happy We will derive acceleration from this. dV by dt will be 2t But if V is equal to x square. Velocity is increasing with x What do you do? Tell me in common sense. There is x square in this There is no t in this. There is x square in this. So you cannot Differentiate it from t. So what do you do? You say I am applying Chain rule. I am applying chain rule. There is a spice of x in this So first I will differentiate it from x. And then I will do x from t See I have applied chain rule. Now in so many books Basically they give it like this. dS. dS into dS. I mean Multiply and divide it. Is this a thing? I disrespect this We criticize this. What will be dx by dt? It will be V again So this will be V again. So this will be V dV by dx So this is its simple derivation. Let's move ahead What does this represent? And this ends our class Our class ends here. Purnima ma'am is ready So what is this? dV by dt. What will be this? This will be acceleration. dV by dt is acceleration dV by dt is acceleration. Magnitude of acceleration So this is what? A. So what does this represent? This entire thing is. I will write this here This is the magnitude of acceleration Some people can say this in a different style This is the magnitude of the rate of change of velocity dV by dt is rate of change of velocity. You can also say this Magnitude of rate of change of velocity. Rate of change of velocity is acceleration It's up to you. What is the answer in this? Magnitude of acceleration. You can write acceleration in English Rate of change of velocity. It doesn't matter. Let's move ahead What is this dV by dt of V? Now come to this Now let's see this in a different color What is this? dV by dt of speed So what is this? What will you call this? This is the rate of change of speed The rate of the differentiation of speed with respect to time The rate of change of speed with respect to time It is the rate of change of speed That's it for today We have put the link of JLD Abhyas Check that link once The link is proper. Ma'am we have changed the link The link is proper now So join the second link The second link is of this class And this is Vector 5. It is happening tomorrow at 7pm So attend it I think you all know the schedule of JEE Live Daily It is from 12 to 3 It gets extended from time to time We have put the link of your playlists on tinyurl.com.jee Earlier it was of your lectures But now it is much better that you can access it from a playlist link It is fun 28 lakh kids refer it on a daily basis It is a big thing for us Do join the Telegram channel t.me.livejee And t.me.namochat I have given the link there A lot of content is already shared for you We have produced the number 1 results last year and this year 3 times continuously 100% After that All India Rank 1 This time it is a big thing 48 such kids whose subject wise 100% has come 3 such toppers of the state are from Academy And apart from that you assume that The number was 1, 2, 5, 5 1255 1, 2, 5, 5 such kids Whose 100% 99 percentile plus has come Top 1% In Top 1% Every 5th kid was from Unacademy So it is a big thing in itself It was impossible to achieve such a big number People have not even done 1 5th of it Just imagine Because the system is so strong Unacademy is unstoppable, unbeatable and unbelievable And again it is possible because of your love and support Because of our teachers, our whole team So big kudos to all of that Apart from that if you study at Unacademy What benefit do you get You can interact with India's best teachers with number 1 technology Your brain's construction is much better If this happens You get a lot of tools where you can Visualize your performance So that you can perform even better next time And on your weaknesses Why am I stammering? You can conquer your weaknesses One minute, let me drink water I was about to say K-K-K-Kiran Wait a minute Yes Now let's talk about Yalgaar and Yodha batches So Yalgaar batch and Yodha batch are India's India's number 1 batches Unacademy's number 1 batches This is where all the top results come out 11th batch is Yalgaar 12th batch is Yodha You can see that India's number 1 team teaches here Which is the authors of top ranker series Apart from that you should know that Aim under 1000 is for your seniors By chance if you are an aspirant of 2022 You should know that Aim under 1000 has started For JEE Advanced We have launched a parallel batch So we have ensured that That batch also starts soon So this is that batch If you want to join Yalgaar and Yodha If you want to learn from Team Udaan And you also want to get such golden results So I want to tell you You can purchase Unacademy's subscription Using the code UDAAN Now what will be the benefit of this UDAAN code? You will get premium access to Yalgaar and Yodha You will not get 1 mentor, you will get 6 mentors You will get 6 world class mentors In Unacademy's subscription UDAAN code is configured to give you Maximum possible benefit and discount on the platform So you can use UDAAN code 11th, 9th and 10th students can take 2 years And 2.5 years subscription And apart from that If there is any 12th or dropper He can take 6 months or 12 months subscription Using the code UDAAN In Iconic subscription you get something extra You should take Iconic or Plus But in Iconic you get some extra things You get mentors Iconic mentors And you get priority in voice call feature So if you can take Iconic, then take Iconic But if you feel That it is a little expensive, then go for the Plus Which is comparatively more affordable But this is the cost To get the best possible education From the place where Most percentage selection happens And definitely do it with us And obviously kickstart your JEE preparation There are a lot of offers It's a simple thing You will get maximum benefit from UDAAN code You can use it And that's it Top quality questions curated by Educators Thank you so much Purnima ma'am's class is starting If you are there, then we are there And definitely subscribe to the channel And like the video Because the one who likes and subscribes His heart is very big Bye
